// Programmer: Adam Forestier       Date: 08/30/18
// File: hw1.txt                    Section: 1E
// Purpose: To algorithmically explain how to play tic-tac-toe, 
//          determine the prime factorization of any positive integer n, n > 1,
//          and determine the most economically sensible way to recycle in Chickendale.


Algorithm #1: tic tac toe

1. Pick up the pencil
2. Using the pencil, draw two parallel, horizontal lines in the middle of the page.
3. Draw two parallel, vertical lines through the horizontal lines, creating a 3X3 playing surface.
4. Between you and your opponent, select either "X" or "O" to represent you on the playing surface.
5. Begin Game
    a. If you select X, make the first move, drawing an X on one of the nine playing spaces.
    b. If you select O, wait for your opponent to make the first move, then draw an O on one of the remaining 8 spaces.
6. Continue alternating, with the "X" player going first, followed by the "O" player.
7. Game Conclusion
    a. If player "X" draws 3 X's in a row vertically, horizontally, or diagonally before the "O" player can draw 3 O's in a row,
       then player X wins the game.
    b. If player "O" draws 3 O's in a row vertically, horizontally, or diagonally before the "X" player can draw 3 X's in a row,
        then player O wins the game.
    c. Else, if all 9 spaces are filled with neither playing obtaining a vertical, horizontal, or diagonal line,
        then the game ends in a draw. Move to step 8.
8. Restart the Game
    a.  If you still are holding the pencil, repeat steps 2 through 7 until a winner is determined.
    b.  If you have set down the pencil, repeat steps 1 through 7 until a winner is determined.


Algorithm #2: determine the prime factorization of any positive integer n, n > 1.

1. Observe the original number.
2. Create array of prime numbers less than 10; this consists of 2, 3, 5, and 7 respectively.
3. Divide the original number by the first number in the array (2).
    a. If the number is divisible by two, meaning no remainder, two is one of the factors.
        i. Factor the quotient by dividing by one of the prime numbers in the array, (2, 3, 5, 7), only if the quotient has no remainder.
        ii. Repeat the sub-step i, until only prime numbers remain.   // Example: 18 = 2 * 3 * 3
    b. Else move to step 4.
4. If the original number is not divisible by 2, attempt dividing by each number remaining in the array. (3, 5, 7). 
    a. If the number is not divisible by 2, 3, 5, or 7; then it is a prime number itself and it has been 
        factored as far as possible.    // Example: 17 = 1 * 17
    b. If the number is divisible by 3, meaning no remainder, three is one of the factors.
        i. Factor the quotient by dividing by one of the prime numbers in the array, (2, 3, 5, 7), only if the quotient has no remainder.
        ii. Repeat the substep i, until only prime numbers remain. Meaning the number is not able 
            to be divided evenly by 2, 3, 5, 7   // Example: 57 = 3 * 19
    c. Else, for each remaining number in the array (5, 7), repeat 4b for 5 and 7, as well as substeps i and ii under 4b.


Algorithm #3: Chickendale road-side recycling

// Only perform step 1, only once. Perform when you first arrive in town. 
1. Upon moving to Chickendale wait for the recycle truck to come your first week, placing all used items in the trash pile.
2. When the truck comes to your house ask the incentives.
    a. How much money will be given for each unit? (glass, paper, metal, and coffee grounds)
        i. Assign best paying unit the variable name "best".
        ii. Assign second-best paying unit the variable name "second".
        iii. Assign third-best paying unit the variable name "third".
        iv. Assign fourth-best paying unit the variable name "fourth".
    b. How many units you are allowed you are allowed to recycle that coming week? Assign this the variable name "max".
3. Take the first item off of the trash pile.
    a. If it is metal, put it in a seperate pile. (metal pile) 
    b. If it is paper, put in a seperate pile. (paper pile)
    c. If it is glass, put in a seperate pile. (glass pile) 
    d. If it is coffee grounds, put in seperate pile. (coffee grounds pile)
    e. If not recyclable, leave in the trash pile.
4. Repeat step 3 until all that remains in the trash pile is not recyclable (trash).
5. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for all 7 mornings of the week.
6. On the day the recycling truck arrives, count your units per recycling material from the seperated piles.
7. Add the units per material in each respective pile. 
8. Compare your individual recyclable material units, such as paper, to max. 
9. Add the total of of the four different unit piles and assign this value the variable name total.
10. Compare total to the max amount.
11. Maximize your revenue.
    a. If total units is equal to zero, recycle nothing.
    b. If total units is less than or equal to max amount, recycle all of your recyclables.
    c. Else, recycle the highest paying recyclables first.
        i. If the amount of best units is greater than or equal to max, recycle the max unit amount of best.
        ii. If the amount of best units is less than max, recycle the amount of second units in addition to 
            best to meet max amount. 
        iii. If the amount of best units plus amount of second units is less than max units, recycle the 
             amount of third units in addition to best and second to meet max amount.
        iv. If the amount of best units plus amount of second units plus the amount of third units is less
            than max units, recycle the amount of fourth units in addition to best, second and third to meet 
            max amount.
10. Repeat steps 2 through 9 until moving out of Chickendale.




